Add some basic guidelines around using C++ standard headers now that our build allows us to (#101088)
dotnet/runtime: docs/coding-guidelines/clr-code-guide.md

See the big block comment at the start of [src\inc\contract.h][contract.h].

## <a name="2.11"></a>2.11 Using standard headers

> The C and C++ standard headers are available for usage in the CoreCLR code-base. However, there are a few restrictions on using the standard-provided APIs for code that will run as part of CoreCLR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The C and C++ standard headers are available for usage in the CoreCLR code-base. However, there are a restrictions on using the standard-provided APIs for code that will run as part of CoreCLR.
```

Reviewer 2: "a restrictions" .. still a typo

> Code that will only run in other processes, such as createdump or other extraneous tools, do not have many of these restrictions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code that will only run in other processes, such as `createdump` or other extraneous tools, do not have the same set of restrictions.
```

### <a name="2.11.1"></a> 2.11.1 Do not use wchar_t

> The `wchar_t` type is implementation-defined, with Windows and Unix-based platforms using different definitions (2 byte vs 4 byte). Use the `WCHAR` alias instead, which is always 2 bytes. The CoreCLR PAL provides implementations of a variety of the C standard `wchar_t` APIs with the `WCHAR` type instead. These methods, as well as the methods in the CoreCLR minipal and in the repo minipal should be used. If a CoreCLR minipal API exists, it should be used instead of the PAL API.

Reviewer: Perhaps add a link to the top level directory for the PAL and minipal?

Reviewer 3: Should we mention `unsigned char` used by non-win32 in minipal/utf8 internals and usages: https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/6fc9636509d014af530add71a6186218be90df55/src/native/minipal/utf8.h#L21-L25

Reviewer 3: Should we mention `unsigned short` used by non-win32 in minipal/utf8 internals and usages: https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/6fc9636509d014af530add71a6186218be90df55/src/native/minipal/utf8.h#L21-L25

### <a name="2.11.2"></a> 2.11.2 Do not use C++ standard exceptions

> The exception handling mechanisms in CoreCLR only handle `Exception`-derived types and `PAL_SEHException`. As a result, standard C++ exceptions, derived from `std::exception`, will cause runtime instability and should never be used. This includes using standard collection types with the default `std::allocator<T>` allocator.

Reviewer 4: On Linux, we build against ROOTFS generated from Linux versions that is out of support. We have convinced ourselves that it is ok given that we are using just prototypes and no actual code from ROOTFS.

Do C++ standard headers come from the ROOTFS? C++ headers do contain actual code (e.g. collection types). If we start including C++ headers with actual code from ROOTFS, our reasoning for why the ROOTFS is ok falls apart.

Author: We do use some code from the ROOTFS today. We get some object files linked in from the relevant libc in the ROOTFS. This does give us more exposure to the C++ standard library version from the ROOTFS though, which is worth considering with respect to security issues.

Author: I've been investigating this further based on our offline conversations, and I've noticed that tools like createdump are already using C++ headers with the template types. I'd assume that we'd have the same concern there as well as in the hosting layer (which uses C++ standard collections and other template types as well).

Author: https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/pull/14728 is the first step towards ensuring we're using maintained/supported C++ standard headers.

### <a name="2.11.3"></a> 2.11.3 Do not use getenv on Unix platforms

The POSIX API `setenv` is not thread safe with `getenv` and can lead to crashes. CoreCLR provides a `PAL_getenv` API that is thread-safe. This API should be used instead when on non-Windows platforms.

## <a name="2.12"></a>2.12 Is your code DAC compliant?

At a high level, DAC is a technique to enable execution of CLR algorithms from out-of-process (eg. on a memory dump). Core CLR code is compiled in a special mode (with DACCESS_COMPILE defined) where all pointer dereferences are intercepted.

Various tools (most notably the debugger and SOS) rely on portions of the CLR code being properly "DACized". Writing code in this way can be tricky and error-prone. Use the following references for more details:

- The best documentation is in the code itself. See the large comments at the top of [src\inc\daccess.h](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/src/coreclr/inc/daccess.h).

> C++ standard collections are not DAC-ized and cannot be DAC-ized, so they should never be used as fields in data structures or in global variables that need to be read by the DAC, even when using a CoreCLR compatible allocator.

Reviewer: Reference or link to section `2.11` for more details?

### <a name="2.11.1"></a> 2.11.1 Do not use wchar_t

The `wchar_t` type is implementation-defined, with Windows and Unix-based platforms using different definitions (2 byte vs 4 byte). Use the `WCHAR` alias instead, which is always 2 bytes. The CoreCLR PAL provides implementations of a variety of the C standard `wchar_t` APIs with the `WCHAR` type instead. These methods, as well as the methods in the [CoreCLR minipal](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/tree/main/src/coreclr/minipal) and in the [repo minipal](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/tree/main/src/native/minipal) should be used. In these minipals, the APIs may use `char16_t` or a locally-defined `CHAR16_T` type. In both cases, these types are compatible with the `WCHAR` alias in CoreCLR. If a minipal API exists, it should be used instead of the PAL API.

### <a name="2.11.2"></a> 2.11.2 Do not use C++ Standard-defined exceptions

> The exception handling mechanisms in CoreCLR only handle `Exception`-derived types and `PAL_SEHException`. As a result, standard C++ exceptions, derived from `std::exception`, will cause runtime instability and should never be used. There is one standard C++ exception type the CoreCLR infrastructure supports, `std::bad_alloc`. Since CoreCLR supports `std::bad_alloc`, the standard container allocators, `std::allocator<T>` and the standard C++ containers, can be used as long as only the non-throwing members are used.

Reviewer 4: > as long as only the non-throwing members are used

What is an example of throwing member that cannot be used?

Reviewer 5: Is `bad_alloc` something new or existed before? Can STL containers be used more to replace custom containers?

Reviewer: > I'll add it as an example (and mention to look at cppreference.com or the C++ standard to check the contracts for members).

This is not going to be sufficient. There are many more concerns with these collections and their use in the coreclr codebase. I appreciate we are starting to document this, but the `bad_alloc` case is the tip of the iceberg here. We have no support in our system's contracts, these have caught innumerable bugs at dev time, so we need a conversation on that. Functions that are marked `noexcept` and encounter an exception will now result in a C++ run-time's "fail fast" occurring - this would be very new behavior that must be carefully considered across all standard implementations since currently our contracts would find it or it could be caught by some `EX_TRY`.

My point here is this guidance will need a lot more consideration until we use any C++ collection. Introduction of this kind of use in the .NET 9 release should be avoided or only in the most trivial and appropriate cases. We've a lot of learn in this area and accomodate in the current code base. My recommendation is we approach this cautiously.

> Can STL containers be used more to replace custom containers?

This is going to be a long term goal and not something we are likely to accept from community members until the core team develops more guidelines on use. Really appreciate the enthusiasm and look forward to help in this area, but for .NET 9 and likely .NET 10 our use of these collections is going to be narrow and very limited.

Code that will only run in other processes, such as `createdump` or other extraneous tools, do not have the same set of restrictions.

> To ensure we're using a supported and easily updatable standard library implementation, we use a specially-built libc++ implementation in our shipping products. This enables us to use a modern C++ standard library implementation while still targeting older rootfs targets with outdated C++ library implementations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure we're using a supported and easily updatable standard library implementation, we use a specially built libc++ implementation, on non-Windows, in our shipping products. This enables us to use a modern C++ standard library implementation while still targeting older rootfs targets with outdated C++ library implementations.
```

Where are we getting this special build?

Reviewer 3: In rootfs, e.g. https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-buildtools-prereqs-docker/blob/0b9f68c13626e2e15d916d1565191501b2e0efc5/src/azurelinux/3.0/net9.0/cross/amd64/Dockerfile#L4, xenial (Ubuntu 16.04) has libc 2.23 (current version is 2.39). So we are essentially exercising the backward-compatibility (unwritten) rule of glibc; link with older libc to maximize the compat. This does not stop us from using the latest _toolchain_ however; case in point, we are using the latest-ish clang in our builds with `-sysroot $ROOTFS_DIR`. 🚀

Author: ```suggestion
To ensure we're using a supported and easily updatable standard library implementation, we use a specially built libc++ implementation, in our Linux Docker containers, in our shipping products. This enables us to use a modern C++ standard library implementation while still targeting older rootfs targets with outdated C++ library implementations.
```
